_pages/10-how-to-use-this-site.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: How to Use this Site
permalink: /how-to-use-this-site/
order: 10
---

This site supports you in defining specific quality requirements for your system.

To make the best use, you should become familiar with our terminology.

## Our _Domain Language_

![Q42 meta model](/images/articles/metamodel/product-quality-metamodel.svg)

Let's explain some terms:


| Term | Explanation          |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Property**| Our 8 top-level properties (#flexible, #efficient, #reliable etc.). Find the full list plus the mapping to qualities [**here**](/properties). These terms are highly abstract, and will be interpreted individually by different stakeholders. They are used as starting points. |
| Specific **Quality**| The detailed terms, like  accessibility, accountability, accuracy (and the whole list you find under [**Qualities by Name**](qualities)). These terms are usually well-defined, but not concrete or operational enough to really help in developing systems.  |
| **Examples** and Acceptance Criteria | These are the specific requirements stakeholders have for a system or product. They should enable stakeholders to explicitely determine if anything is _good enough_. |


## How to Use Q42

You can approach in several ways:

1. Top-down, starting with the eight top-level [**properties**](/properties) 
2. Bottom-up, by reading through the [extensive list of **qualities**](/qualities/).
3. By asking your stakeholders for terms (either properties or specific qualities) they consider important, and then continue with steps 1 or 2.
4. By reading the [**examples** of quality requirements](/requirements).


All these approaches are described below.

![inside-out vs outside-in graphic](/images/how2use/how-to-use-this-site.svg)

### Inside-Out, starting with Q42 Quality Properties
Let's assume that your stakeholders want a "flexible" system. 
This is completely unsuitable as a requirement because it is too unspecific. 

You could search under the term "#flexible" (to be found under "[Quality Properties](/properties/)".
There you find a collection of related terms ("Qualities tagged with #flexible"), and also a collection of exemplary quality requirements of this generic term.


### Outside-In
The other way round is viable too:
In case your stakeholders have specific requirements, like "compliance":
Just start with the (extensive!) list of [qualities](/qualities/).

Again, you will find related qualities and examples on the detail-pages

### Start with Examples

The third option starts with the [examples of quality requirements](/requirements).
These are

Commit message:

more updates on property-pages (what stakeholders mean by...)

_pages/10-how-to-use-this-site.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: How to Use this Site
permalink: /how-to-use-this-site/
order: 10
---



This site supports you in defining specific quality requirements for your system.

To make the best use, you should become familiar with our terminology.

## Our _Domain Language_

![Q42 explanatory **model**](/images/articles/metamodel/q42-metamodel.svg)

Let's explain some terms:


| Term | Explanation          |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Property**| Our 8 top-level properties (#flexible, #efficient, #reliable etc.). Find the full list plus the mapping to qualities [**here**](/properties). These terms are highly abstract, and will be interpreted individually by different stakeholders. They can be used as starting points, but need to be detailed. Q42 maps these properties to 10-30 different specific qualities. |
| Specific **Quality**| The detailed and specific terms, like  accessibility, accountability, accuracy etc. Currently Q42 collects more than 100 such terms under [**Qualities by Name**](qualities)). These terms are usually well-defined, but need examples or acceptance criteria  to really help in developing systems. Q42 contains examples for many (hopefully all, at some day in the future) |
| **Stakeholder** | People, roles or organizations that need, want or require certain quality requirements for their systems. |
| **Examples**  | These are the specific requirements stakeholders have for a system or product, often expressed in form of quality scenarios. They should facilitate stakeholder communication by enabling a common understanding of the _good enough_. |
| **Acceptance criterion**  | What does _good enough_ mean with respect to a specific quality. |


## How to Use Q42

You can approach in several ways:

1. Inside-out, starting with the eight top-level [**properties**](/properties) 
2. Outside-in, by reading through the [extensive list of **qualities**](/qualities/).
3. By asking your stakeholders for terms (either properties or specific qualities) they consider important, and then continue with steps 1 or 2.
4. By reading the [**examples** of quality requirements](/requirements).


All these approaches are described below.

![inside-out vs outside-in graphic](/images/how2use/how-to-use-this-site.svg)

### Inside-Out, starting with Q42 Quality Properties
Let's assume that your stakeholders want a "flexible" system. 
This is completely unsuitable as a requirement because it is too unspecific. 

You could search under the term "#flexible" (to be found under "[Quality Properties](/properties/)".
There you find a collection of related terms ("Qualities tagged with #flexible"), and also a collection of exemplary quality requirements of this generic term.


### Outside-In
The other way round is viable too:
In case your stakeholders have specific requirements, like "compliance":
Just start with the (extensive!) list of [qualities](/qualities/).

Again, you will find related qualities and examples on the detail-pages

### Start with Examples

The third option starts with the [examples of quality requirements](/requirements).
These are
