_pages/60-references.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: References
permalink: /references/
order: 60
---


<a id="bass-swa-practice"/>
### Bass et. al: Software Architecture in Practice

Len Bass, Paul Clements, Rick Kazman: Software Architecture in Practice. 4th Edition, Addison Wesley 2022.

<a id="boehm-model"/>
### Boehm et al: Quantitative Evaluation of Software Quality

B. W. Boehm, J. R. Brown and M. Lipow: Quantitative evaluation of software quality.

ICSE '76: Proceedings of the 2nd international conference on Software engineeringOctober 1976 Pages 592–605, available [online](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/800253.807736)

From the abstract:

>A definitive hierarchy of well-defined, well-differentiated characteristics of software quality is developed. 
>Its higher-level structure reflects the actual uses to which software quality evaluation would be put; its lower-level characteristics are closely correlated with actual software metric evaluations which can be performed.

Please note: Boehm's quality model is often (wrongly) dated to a 1978 publication, but in reality the authors published it 1976.

<a id="crosby-quality"/>
### Crosby: Quality is Free

Philip B. Crosby: Quality is Free: The Art of Making Quality Certain. McGraw Hill Books, 1994.

<a id="Eeles-2005"/>
### Eeles, Peter: Capturing Architectural Requirements, 
IBM Developerworks 2005, available via [archive.org](https://web.archive.org/web/20201112020231/http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/rational/library/4706.html#N100A7). 

Also by this author: [Non-functional Requirements](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/f3bb/91080c4573f6f78f30bc5b48bda3ef252bf2.pdf)


<a id="ISO-25010-2011"/>
### ISO 25010 (v. 2011-2017)

ISO/IEC DIS 25010(en): Systems and software engineering — Systems and software Quality Requirements and Evaluation (SQuaRE) — Product quality model

Online on [iso.org](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso-iec:25010:dis:ed-2:v1:en)


<a id="ISO-25010-2022"/>
### ISO 25010 (draft version 2022)

ISO/IEC TS 25052-1:2022(en)
Systems and software engineering — Systems and software Quality Requirements and Evaluation (SQuaRE): Product quality model

Online on [iso.org](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso-iec:25010:dis:ed-2:v1:en)

<a id="kazman-maintainability"/>
### Kazman et. al: Maintainability

Rick Kazman, Phil Bianco, James Ivers and John Klein: Maintainability. SEI Technical Report, December 2020.
[CMU/SEI-2020-TR-006](https://resources.sei.cmu.edu/asset_files/TechnicalReport/2020_005_001_650490.pdf)


<a id="mccall"/>
### McCall/Cavano: A framework for the measurement of software quality 

ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes, Volume 3, Issue 5, November 1978, pp 133–139.
[available online](https://doi.org/10.1145/953579.811113)

Nice statement: 

>One problem ... is the absence of a widely accepted definition of software quality.
>
>Cavano/McCall, p 133. 

<a id="robertsons-requirements"/>
### Robertson: Mastering the Requirements Process 
Suzanne Robertson and James Robertson: Mastering the Requirements Process - Getting Requirements Right. Pearson, 3rd edition 2012.


<a id="starke-lorz"/>
### Gernot Starke, Alexander Lorz: Software Architecture Foundations 
CPSA-F Exam Preparation. VanHaren Publishing, 2021


<a id="volere"/>
### Volere Requirements Specification Template

Suzanne and James Robertson, detailed information [online on volere.org](https://www.volere.org/)

Commit message:

added McCallMatsumoto to references, thx @ichsteffen

_pages/60-references.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: References
permalink: /references/
order: 60
---


<a id="bass-swa-practice"/>
### Bass et. al: Software Architecture in Practice

Len Bass, Paul Clements, Rick Kazman: Software Architecture in Practice. 4th Edition, Addison Wesley 2022.

<a id="boehm-model"/>
### Boehm et al: Quantitative Evaluation of Software Quality

B. W. Boehm, J. R. Brown and M. Lipow: Quantitative evaluation of software quality.

ICSE '76: Proceedings of the 2nd international conference on Software engineeringOctober 1976 Pages 592–605, available [online](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/800253.807736)

From the abstract:

>A definitive hierarchy of well-defined, well-differentiated characteristics of software quality is developed. 
>Its higher-level structure reflects the actual uses to which software quality evaluation would be put; its lower-level characteristics are closely correlated with actual software metric evaluations which can be performed.

Please note: Boehm's quality model is often (wrongly) dated to a 1978 publication, but in reality the authors published it 1976.

<a id="crosby-quality"/>
### Crosby: Quality is Free

Philip B. Crosby: Quality is Free: The Art of Making Quality Certain. McGraw Hill Books, 1994.

<a id="Eeles-2005"/>
### Eeles, Peter: Capturing Architectural Requirements, 
IBM Developerworks 2005, available via [archive.org](https://web.archive.org/web/20201112020231/http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/rational/library/4706.html#N100A7). 

Also by this author: [Non-functional Requirements](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/f3bb/91080c4573f6f78f30bc5b48bda3ef252bf2.pdf)


<a id="ISO-25010-2011"/>
### ISO 25010 (v. 2011-2017)

ISO/IEC DIS 25010(en): Systems and software engineering — Systems and software Quality Requirements and Evaluation (SQuaRE) — Product quality model

Online on [iso.org](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso-iec:25010:dis:ed-2:v1:en)


<a id="ISO-25010-2022"/>
### ISO 25010 (draft version 2022)

ISO/IEC TS 25052-1:2022(en)
Systems and software engineering — Systems and software Quality Requirements and Evaluation (SQuaRE): Product quality model

Online on [iso.org](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso-iec:25010:dis:ed-2:v1:en)

<a id="kazman-maintainability"/>
### Kazman et. al: Maintainability

Rick Kazman, Phil Bianco, James Ivers and John Klein: Maintainability. SEI Technical Report, December 2020.
[CMU/SEI-2020-TR-006](https://resources.sei.cmu.edu/asset_files/TechnicalReport/2020_005_001_650490.pdf)


<a id="mccallMatsumoto1980"/>
### McCall/Matsumuto: Software Quality Measurement Manual 

Available [online](https://apps.dtic.mil/sti/pdfs/ADA086986.pdf)

From this document:

>The purpose of this manual is to present a complete set of procedures and guidelines for introducing and utilizing current software quality measurement techniques in a quality assurance program associated with large scale software system developments.
>
>These procedures and guidelines will identify:
>
>1. How to identify and specify software quality requirements (Setting Quality Goals).
>2. How and when to apply software metrics (Applying Metrics), and
>3. How to interpret the information obtained from the application of the metrics (Making a Quality Assessment)."


(thanx to @ichsteffen for pointing out this awesome reference!)

<a id="mccall"/>
### McCall/Cavano: A framework for the measurement of software quality 

ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes, Volume 3, Issue 5, November 1978, pp 133–139.
[available online](https://doi.org/10.1145/953579.811113)

Nice statement: 

>One problem ... is the absence of a widely accepted definition of software quality.
>
>Cavano/McCall, p 133. 

<a id="robertsons-requirements"/>
### Robertson: Mastering the Requirements Process 
Suzanne Robertson and James Robertson: Mastering the Requirements Process - Getting Requirements Right. Pearson, 3rd edition 2012.


<a id="starke-lorz"/>
### Gernot Starke, Alexander Lorz: Software Architecture Foundations 
CPSA-F Exam Preparation. VanHaren Publishing, 2021


<a id="volere"/>
### Volere Requirements Specification Template

Suzanne and James Robertson, detailed information [online on volere.org](https://www.volere.org/)
