_pages/70-references.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: References
permalink: /references/
order: 70
---

<a id="astrotech"></a>
### astrotech.io: Quality Models

M. Harasymczuk "Quality - The Software Engineering." astrotech.io. 

Available [online](https://dev.astrotech.io/sonarqube/quality-models.html)

<a id="bass2021software"></a>

### Bass et al.: Software Architecture in Practice

L. Bass, P. Clements, and R. Kazman, Software architecture in practice, 4th ed. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2021.

<a id="boehm1976quantitative"></a>
### Boehm et al.: Quantitative Evaluation of Software Quality

B. W. Boehm, J. R. Brown, and M. Lipow, ‘Quantitative evaluation of software quality’, in Proceedings of the 2nd international conference on Software engineering, 1976, pp. 592–605.

Available [online](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/800253.807736)

From the abstract:

>A definitive hierarchy of well-defined, well-differentiated characteristics of software quality is developed. 
>Its higher-level structure reflects the actual uses to which software quality evaluation would be put; its lower-level characteristics are closely correlated with actual software metric evaluations which can be performed.

Please note: Boehm's quality model is often (wrongly) dated to a 1978 publication, but in reality the authors published it in 1976.

<a id="boehm1978characteristics"></a>
### Boehm et al.: Characteristics of Software Quality

B. Barry, ‘Characteristics of Software Quality, TRW Series of Software Technology’. New York: American Elsevier, 1978.

<a id="crosby-quality"></a>
### Crosby: Quality is Free

Philip B. Crosby: Quality is Free: The Art of Making Quality Certain. McGraw Hill Books, 1994.

<a id="eeles2005capturing"></a>
### Eeles: Capturing Architectural Requirements

P. Eeles, ‘Capturing architectural requirements’, IBM Rational developer works, 2005.

Available [online](https://web.archive.org/web/20201112020231/http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/rational/library/4706.html#N100A7) 

Also by this author: [Non-functional Requirements](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/f3bb/91080c4573f6f78f30bc5b48bda3ef252bf2.pdf)

<a id="grady1992practical"></a>
### B. Grady, Practical software metrics for project management and process improvement

R. B. Grady, Practical software metrics for project management and process improvement. Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1992.

<a id="hohpe2004enterprise"></a>
### G. Hohpe and B. Woolf, Enterprise integration patterns

G. Hohpe and B. Woolf, Enterprise integration patterns: Designing, building, and deploying messaging solutions. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2004.

<a id="iso-9241-110"></a>
### ISO 9241 (v. 2006-2020)

I. O. for Standardization, ISO 9241-110: Ergonomics of human-system interaction - Part 110: Dialogue Principles. ISO, 2020

Available [online](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso:9241:-110:ed-2:v1:en)

<a id="iso-25010-2011"></a>
### ISO 25010 (v. 2011-2017)

ISO/IEC DIS 25010(en): Systems and software engineering — Systems and software Quality Requirements and Evaluation (SQuaRE) — Product quality model

Available [online](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso-iec:25010:dis:ed-2:v1:en)

<a id="iso-25010-2022"></a>
### ISO 25010 (draft version 2022)

ISO/IEC TS 25052-1:2022(en)
Systems and software engineering — Systems and software Quality Requirements and Evaluation (SQuaRE): Product quality model

Available [online](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso-iec:25010:dis:ed-2:v1:en)

<a id="jamwal"></a>
### Jamwal et al.: Comparative Analysis of Different Software Quality Models

R. S. Jamwal, D. Jamwal, and D. Padha, ‘Comparative analysis of different software quality models’, in 3rd National Conference, 2009.

Available [online](https://docplayer.net/15320992-Comparative-analysis-of-different-software-quality-models.html)

<a id="kazman-maintainability"></a>
### Kazman et al.: Maintainability

R. Kazman, P. Bianco, J. Ivers, and J. Klein, ‘Maintainability’, 2020.

Available [online](https://resources.sei.cmu.edu/asset_files/TechnicalReport/2020_005_001_650490.pdf)

<a id="martin-clean-architecture"></a>
### Martin et al.: Clean Architecture

R. C. Martin, J. Grenning, and S. Brown, Clean architecture.
Prentice Hall, 2018.

<a id="mccall"></a>
### McCall/Cavano: A framework for the measurement of software quality 

J. P. Cavano and J. A. McCall, ‘A framework for the measurement of software quality’, in Proceedings of the software quality assurance workshop on Functional and performance issues, 1978, pp. 133–139.

Available [online](https://doi.org/10.1145/953579.811113)

Nice statement: 

>One problem ... is the absence of a widely accepted definition of software quality.
>
>Cavano/McCall, p 133.

<a id="mccabe1976complexity"></a>
### McCabe: A complexity measure

T. J. McCabe, ‘A complexity measure’, IEEE Transactions on software Engineering, no. 4, pp. 308–320, 1976. 

Available [online](https://www.cs.mtsu.edu/~untch/6050/private/McCabe1976.pdf)

<a id="mccall1980software"></a>
### McCall/Matsumuto: Software Quality Measurement Manual 

J. A. McCall and M. T. Matsumoto, ‘Software Quality Measurement Manual. Volume 2’, GENERAL ELECTRIC CO SUNNYVALE CA, 1980.

Available [online](https://apps.dtic.mil/sti/pdfs/ADA086986.pdf)

From this document:

>The purpose of this manual is to present a complete set of procedures and guidelines for introducing and utilizing current software quality measurement techniques in a quality assurance program associated with large-scale software system developments.
>
>These procedures and guidelines will identify:
>
>1. How to identify and specify software quality requirements (Setting Quality Goals).
>2. How and when to apply software metrics (Applying Metrics), and
>3. How to interpret the information obtained from the application of the metrics (Making a Quality Assessment)."


(thanx to @ichsteffen for pointing out this awesome reference!)

<a id="mccall1977factors"></a>
### McCall/Walters: Factors in Software Quality

J. McCall and G. Walters, ‘Factors in Software Quality. National Technical Information Service (NTIS)’, Springfield, VA, USA, 1977.

<a id="mockus2010experiences"></a>
### Mockus et al.: Experiences from replicating a case study to investigate reproducibility of software development

A. Mockus, B. Anda, and D. I. K. Sjøberg, ‘Experiences from replicating a case study to investigate reproducibility of software development’, in Proceedings of the 1st International Workshop on Replication in Empirical Software Engineering Research, 2010.

Available [online](https://www.academia.edu/download/48902272/Experiences_from_replicating_a_case_stud20160917-12517-1j07fpz.pdf)

<a id="nist-idps"></a>
### Aroms: NIST Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems (IDPS)

E. Aroms, ‘NIST special publication 800-94 guide to intrusion detection and prevention systems (IDPS)’. CreateSpace, 2012.

Available [online](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-94.pdf)

<a id="robertson2012mastering"></a>
### Robertson: Mastering the Requirements Process 

S. Robertson and J. Robertson, Mastering the requirements process: Getting requirements right. Addison-wesley, 2012.

<a id="starke2021software"></a>
### Starke/Lorz: Software Architecture Foundations 

G. Starke and A. Lorz, Software Architecture Foundation: CPSA Foundation® Exam Preparation. Van Haren, 2021.

<a id="volere"></a>
### Robertson/Robertson: Volere Requirements Specification Template

S. Robertson and J. Robertson, Volere Requirements Specification Template

Available [online](https://www.cin.ufpe.br/~in1020/docs/publicacoes/Volere_template16.pdf)

Commit message:

add bbv SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT QUALITY MAP to references

_pages/70-references.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: References
permalink: /references/
order: 70
---

<a id="astrotech"></a>
### astrotech.io: Quality Models

M. Harasymczuk "Quality - The Software Engineering." astrotech.io. 

Available [online](https://dev.astrotech.io/sonarqube/quality-models.html)

<a id="bass2021software"></a>

### Bass et al.: Software Architecture in Practice

L. Bass, P. Clements, and R. Kazman, Software architecture in practice, 4th ed. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2021.

<a id="bbvquality"></a>
### BBV Software Development Quality Map

BBV (a Swiss consulting and software company) have published a visual map of [software development quality](https://quality.bbv.ch/).



<a id="boehm1976quantitative"></a>
### Boehm et al.: Quantitative Evaluation of Software Quality

B. W. Boehm, J. R. Brown, and M. Lipow, ‘Quantitative evaluation of software quality’, in Proceedings of the 2nd international conference on Software engineering, 1976, pp. 592–605.

Available [online](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/800253.807736)

From the abstract:

>A definitive hierarchy of well-defined, well-differentiated characteristics of software quality is developed. 
>Its higher-level structure reflects the actual uses to which software quality evaluation would be put; its lower-level characteristics are closely correlated with actual software metric evaluations which can be performed.

Please note: Boehm's quality model is often (wrongly) dated to a 1978 publication, but in reality the authors published it in 1976.

<a id="boehm1978characteristics"></a>
### Boehm et al.: Characteristics of Software Quality

B. Barry, ‘Characteristics of Software Quality, TRW Series of Software Technology’. New York: American Elsevier, 1978.

<a id="crosby-quality"></a>
### Crosby: Quality is Free

Philip B. Crosby: Quality is Free: The Art of Making Quality Certain. McGraw Hill Books, 1994.

<a id="eeles2005capturing"></a>
### Eeles: Capturing Architectural Requirements

P. Eeles, ‘Capturing architectural requirements’, IBM Rational developer works, 2005.

Available [online](https://web.archive.org/web/20201112020231/http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/rational/library/4706.html#N100A7) 

Also by this author: [Non-functional Requirements](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/f3bb/91080c4573f6f78f30bc5b48bda3ef252bf2.pdf)

<a id="grady1992practical"></a>
### B. Grady, Practical software metrics for project management and process improvement

R. B. Grady, Practical software metrics for project management and process improvement. Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1992.

<a id="hohpe2004enterprise"></a>
### G. Hohpe and B. Woolf, Enterprise integration patterns

G. Hohpe and B. Woolf, Enterprise integration patterns: Designing, building, and deploying messaging solutions. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2004.

<a id="iso-9241-110"></a>
### ISO 9241 (v. 2006-2020)

I. O. for Standardization, ISO 9241-110: Ergonomics of human-system interaction - Part 110: Dialogue Principles. ISO, 2020

Available [online](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso:9241:-110:ed-2:v1:en)

<a id="iso-25010-2011"></a>
### ISO 25010 (v. 2011-2017)

ISO/IEC DIS 25010(en): Systems and software engineering — Systems and software Quality Requirements and Evaluation (SQuaRE) — Product quality model

Available [online](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso-iec:25010:dis:ed-2:v1:en)

<a id="iso-25010-2022"></a>
### ISO 25010 (draft version 2022)

ISO/IEC TS 25052-1:2022(en)
Systems and software engineering — Systems and software Quality Requirements and Evaluation (SQuaRE): Product quality model

Available [online](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso-iec:25010:dis:ed-2:v1:en)

<a id="jamwal"></a>
### Jamwal et al.: Comparative Analysis of Different Software Quality Models

R. S. Jamwal, D. Jamwal, and D. Padha, ‘Comparative analysis of different software quality models’, in 3rd National Conference, 2009.

Available [online](https://docplayer.net/15320992-Comparative-analysis-of-different-software-quality-models.html)

<a id="kazman-maintainability"></a>
### Kazman et al.: Maintainability

R. Kazman, P. Bianco, J. Ivers, and J. Klein, ‘Maintainability’, 2020.

Available [online](https://resources.sei.cmu.edu/asset_files/TechnicalReport/2020_005_001_650490.pdf)

<a id="martin-clean-architecture"></a>
### Martin et al.: Clean Architecture

R. C. Martin, J. Grenning, and S. Brown, Clean architecture.
Prentice Hall, 2018.

<a id="mccall"></a>
### McCall/Cavano: A framework for the measurement of software quality 

J. P. Cavano and J. A. McCall, ‘A framework for the measurement of software quality’, in Proceedings of the software quality assurance workshop on Functional and performance issues, 1978, pp. 133–139.

Available [online](https://doi.org/10.1145/953579.811113)

Nice statement: 

>One problem ... is the absence of a widely accepted definition of software quality.
>
>Cavano/McCall, p 133.

<a id="mccabe1976complexity"></a>
### McCabe: A complexity measure

T. J. McCabe, ‘A complexity measure’, IEEE Transactions on software Engineering, no. 4, pp. 308–320, 1976. 

Available [online](https://www.cs.mtsu.edu/~untch/6050/private/McCabe1976.pdf)

<a id="mccall1980software"></a>
### McCall/Matsumuto: Software Quality Measurement Manual 

J. A. McCall and M. T. Matsumoto, ‘Software Quality Measurement Manual. Volume 2’, GENERAL ELECTRIC CO SUNNYVALE CA, 1980.

Available [online](https://apps.dtic.mil/sti/pdfs/ADA086986.pdf)

From this document:

>The purpose of this manual is to present a complete set of procedures and guidelines for introducing and utilizing current software quality measurement techniques in a quality assurance program associated with large-scale software system developments.
>
>These procedures and guidelines will identify:
>
>1. How to identify and specify software quality requirements (Setting Quality Goals).
>2. How and when to apply software metrics (Applying Metrics), and
>3. How to interpret the information obtained from the application of the metrics (Making a Quality Assessment)."


(thanx to @ichsteffen for pointing out this awesome reference!)

<a id="mccall1977factors"></a>
### McCall/Walters: Factors in Software Quality

J. McCall and G. Walters, ‘Factors in Software Quality. National Technical Information Service (NTIS)’, Springfield, VA, USA, 1977.

<a id="mockus2010experiences"></a>
### Mockus et al.: Experiences from replicating a case study to investigate reproducibility of software development

A. Mockus, B. Anda, and D. I. K. Sjøberg, ‘Experiences from replicating a case study to investigate reproducibility of software development’, in Proceedings of the 1st International Workshop on Replication in Empirical Software Engineering Research, 2010.

Available [online](https://www.academia.edu/download/48902272/Experiences_from_replicating_a_case_stud20160917-12517-1j07fpz.pdf)

<a id="nist-idps"></a>
### Aroms: NIST Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems (IDPS)

E. Aroms, ‘NIST special publication 800-94 guide to intrusion detection and prevention systems (IDPS)’. CreateSpace, 2012.

Available [online](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-94.pdf)

<a id="robertson2012mastering"></a>
### Robertson: Mastering the Requirements Process 

S. Robertson and J. Robertson, Mastering the requirements process: Getting requirements right. Addison-wesley, 2012.

<a id="starke2021software"></a>
### Starke/Lorz: Software Architecture Foundations 

G. Starke and A. Lorz, Software Architecture Foundation: CPSA Foundation® Exam Preparation. Van Haren, 2021.

>Remark: Since May 2023 a second edition of this book is available, containing several bugfixes.


<a id="volere"></a>
### Robertson/Robertson: Volere Requirements Specification Template

S. Robertson and J. Robertson, Volere Requirements Specification Template

Available [online](https://www.cin.ufpe.br/~in1020/docs/publicacoes/Volere_template16.pdf)
