_pages/tag-testable.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "#testable"
hide: true
permalink: /tag-testable/
---

<div class="arc42-help" markdown="1">

Easy to 
* test if the system functions as expected or required
* create and execute such tests

</div><br>

## Definition

>capability of a product to enable an objective and feasible test to be designed and performed to determine whether a requirement is met.
>
>[ISO-25010-2022](/references/#iso-25010-2022)


## Typical Acceptance Criteria


### Scenario Response Measures from [Bass et al.]

>* Effort to find faults or classes of faults
>* Effort to achieve a given percentage of state space coverage
>* Probility of fault being reveiled by the next test
>* Time to perform tests
>* Effort to detect faults
>* Length of time to prepare test infrastructure
>* Effort to bring system into a specific state
>* Reduction in risk exposure: `size(loss) x prob(loss)`
>
>[Bass et. al, 2022](/references/#bass-swa-practice)



<!-- include all qualities associated with this tag -->
{% include one-quality.md topic="testable"  %}

Commit message:

Squashed commit of the following:
commit b89a4a8353d3e1d62b639b95eb139358cada7dc2
Author: Dr. Gernot Starke <gs@gernotstarke.de>
Date:   Sat Feb 25 19:21:57 2023 +0100

    fix formating of requirements

commit 2e6ef5f50134d91fd2806548476148b2ad6996d0
Author: Dr. Gernot Starke <gs@gernotstarke.de>
Date:   Thu Feb 23 10:12:50 2023 +0100

    added @ichsteffen, updated home.md

commit 32200bee85ee65ef8a098fb42f6324a5d29734e7
Author: Dr. Gernot Starke <gs@gernotstarke.de>
Date:   Thu Feb 23 09:31:37 2023 +0100

    renamed most occurences of testable

commit 679bd52e9f70670ab0668b474e19c2acb0432d42
Author: Dr. Gernot Starke <gs@gernotstarke.de>
Date:   Thu Feb 23 09:14:07 2023 +0100

    renamed testable.md page, replaced definitions. Acceptance criteria still missing, though.

commit c6ee15dbbe763554d99207dab37d6be63c9c737c
Author: Dr. Gernot Starke <gs@gernotstarke.de>
Date:   Thu Feb 23 06:45:44 2023 +0100

    first changes for #90 - images

_pages/tag-testable.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "#suitable"
hide: true
permalink: /tag-suitable/
---

_Suitable_ might be the most generic term within the Q42 properties.

<div class="arc42-help" markdown="1">

Being right or appropriate for a particular person, purpose, or situation.
</div><br>

Note: In previous versions of Q42, the term "_testable_" was used instead of _suitable_.
Users found that to be overly specific, see the discussion [here](https://github.com/arc42/quality.arc42.org-site/issues/90).


## Definition

>(Functional) Suitability:
>
>...provides functions that meet stated and implied needs when used under specified conditions.
>
>[ISO-25010-2022](/references/#iso-25010-2022)


The ISO restricts _Suitability_ to functional aspects. 
In our opinion it is useful in a broader sense: For example, seen from a testing perspective, suitable can mean "easy to test". 

### "Responsibility" as alternative term

[Bass et. al, 2022](/references/#bass-swa-practice) propose to use the term "responsibility" instead of (functional) suitability.
That is, from our perspective, a matter of taste.

## Typical Acceptance Criteria

(todo)




<!-- include all qualities associated with this tag -->
{% include one-quality.md topic="suitable"  %}
