_qualities/E/explainability.md, before:

---
title: Explainability
tags: [safe, suitable]
related: [accountability, analysability, clarity]
standards: [iso42001, isoiec22989, iso24028]
permalink: /qualities/explainability
---
Explainability is a quality sometimes required in the context of Artificial Intelligence (AI). The European's proposed AI Act will probably contain obligations for some AI systems to provide explanations about decisions that impact user rights.

### Definitions

> A system S is explainable with respect to an aspect X of S relative to an addressee A in context C if and only if there is an entity E (the explainer) who, by giving a corpus of information I (the explanation of X), enables A to understand X of S in C.
> [L. Chazette, W. Brunotte and T. Speith, "Exploring Explainability: A Definition, a Model, and a Knowledge Catalogue," 2021 IEEE 29th International Requirements Engineering Conference (RE), Notre Dame, IN, USA, 2021, pp. 197-208, doi: 10.1109/RE51729.2021.00025.](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9604587)

<hr class="with-no-margin"/>

> Explainable AI (XAI) [..] either refers to an AI system over which it is possible for humans to retain intellectual oversight, or to the methods to achieve this.
> [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Explainable_artificial_intelligence)

<hr class="with-no-margin"/>

> [..] local explainability helps answer the question, “for this particular example, why did the model make this particular decision?”
> 
>Cohort explainability is the process of understanding to what degree your model’s features contribute to its predictions over a subset of your data.
> 
> We consider an ML engineer to have access to global model explainability if across all predictions they are able to attribute which features contributed the most to the model’s decisions.
> [Towards Datascience](https://towardsdatascience.com/a-look-into-global-cohort-and-local-model-explainability-973bd449969f)

Commit message:

content: add NIST AI RMF 1.0 standard
Adds NIST Artificial Intelligence Risk Management Framework (AI RMF 1.0,
NIST.AI.100-1, Jan 2023) as a new standard page at _standards/other/nist-ai-rmf.md.

Standard page covers:
- Seven trustworthiness characteristics (valid/reliable, safe, secure/resilient,
  accountable/transparent, explainable/interpretable, privacy-enhanced, fair)
- Four core functions with all categories: GOVERN (6), MAP (5), MEASURE (4), MANAGE (4)
- Relationships to ISO/IEC 42001, ISO 24028, NIST SP 800-53, ISO/IEC 22989

Quality pages updated with nistairmf standard reference:
- accountability, explainability, fairness, privacy, reliability, resilience,
  safety, security, transparency

Also adds explainability as a related quality on determinism.md, reflecting the
AI-context relationship between non-determinism and explainability challenges.

_qualities/E/explainability.md, after:

---
title: Explainability
tags: [safe, suitable]
related: [accountability, analysability, clarity, determinism]
standards: [iso42001, isoiec22989, iso24028, nistairmf]
permalink: /qualities/explainability
---
Explainability is a quality sometimes required in the context of Artificial Intelligence (AI). The European's proposed AI Act will probably contain obligations for some AI systems to provide explanations about decisions that impact user rights.

### Definitions

> A system S is explainable with respect to an aspect X of S relative to an addressee A in context C if and only if there is an entity E (the explainer) who, by giving a corpus of information I (the explanation of X), enables A to understand X of S in C.
> [L. Chazette, W. Brunotte and T. Speith, "Exploring Explainability: A Definition, a Model, and a Knowledge Catalogue," 2021 IEEE 29th International Requirements Engineering Conference (RE), Notre Dame, IN, USA, 2021, pp. 197-208, doi: 10.1109/RE51729.2021.00025.](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9604587)

<hr class="with-no-margin"/>

> Explainable AI (XAI) [..] either refers to an AI system over which it is possible for humans to retain intellectual oversight, or to the methods to achieve this.
> [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Explainable_artificial_intelligence)

<hr class="with-no-margin"/>

> [..] local explainability helps answer the question, “for this particular example, why did the model make this particular decision?”
> 
>Cohort explainability is the process of understanding to what degree your model’s features contribute to its predictions over a subset of your data.
> 
> We consider an ML engineer to have access to global model explainability if across all predictions they are able to attribute which features contributed the most to the model’s decisions.
> [Towards Datascience](https://towardsdatascience.com/a-look-into-global-cohort-and-local-model-explainability-973bd449969f)

### Relationship to Determinism

**[Determinism](/qualities/determinism)** is a key factor for explainability. If a system's behavior is non-deterministic (indeterministic), it becomes significantly harder to attribute specific outputs to their causes, undermining the trust and clarity that explanations are intended to provide. Non-reproducible outputs often lack a consistent "why."
