_qualities/I/integrability.md, before:

---
title: Integrability
tags: flexible operable
related: interoperability, modularity, composability, compatibility
permalink: /qualities/integrability
---

### Definitions

> Integrability is the ease with which a software component or system can be integrated with other components or systems.
>
>[System integration - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/System_integration)

<hr class="with-no-margin"/>

> The degree to which a system or component can be incorporated into other systems with minimal effort and without requiring significant modifications to either system.
>
>Based on software engineering principles (IEEE 1061-1998)

### Scope and Intent
- Aim: enable seamless combination of software components and systems with minimal integration effort.
- Techniques: standardized interfaces, well-defined APIs, loose coupling, configuration management, comprehensive documentation, automated deployment.
- Evidence: integration time metrics, interface compatibility tests, successful third-party integrations, minimal custom adapter code required.

Commit message:

docs(qualities): refine Integrability with ISO/IEC 25010 reference and clearer scope; feat(requirements): add versioning/contracts/observability/compliance to payment integration; add idempotency/reconciliation/RPO-RTO/privacy/observability to CRM sync with verification steps

_qualities/I/integrability.md, after:

---
title: Integrability
tags: flexible operable
related: interoperability, modularity, composability, compatibility
permalink: /qualities/integrability
---

### Definitions

> Integrability is the ease with which a software component or system can be integrated with other components or systems.
>
>[System integration - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/System_integration)

<hr class="with-no-margin"/>

> In the ISO/IEC 25010 quality model, related characteristics such as Compatibility (Interoperability) and Modularity describe how components interact and compose; integrability focuses on the effort required to make those interactions work in a specific context with minimal change.
>
>[ISO/IEC 25010 (overview)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO/IEC_25010) · See also: [/standards/iso-25010](/standards/iso-25010)

### Scope and Intent
- Aim: enable seamless combination of software components and systems with minimal integration effort.
- Techniques: contract‑first APIs, standardized interfaces, explicit versioning and deprecation policy, backward‑compatibility guarantees, event/data schemas, loose coupling, clear extension points.
- Evidence: median time to integrate a new provider (e.g., ≤ 40h); contract‑test suite passes across supported versions; % of integrations requiring custom adapters kept low (e.g., ≤ 20%); interface compatibility tests green in CI.

### Notes
- Interoperability: ability of systems to exchange/use information at runtime (ISO/IEC 25010 Compatibility).
- Integrability: the work/effort to make such interactions operational in a given environment (adapters, mappings, contracts).
