_qualities/I/integrity.md, before:

---
title: Integrity
tags: secure
related: confidentiality, security
standards: iso25010, iso27001
permalink: /qualities/integrity
---

See [#secure](/tag-secure)

### Definitions:


>Capability of a product to ensure that the state of its system and data are protected from unauthorized modification or deletion either by malicious action or computer error
>
>[ISO-25010:2023](/references/#iso-25010-2023)

<hr class="with-no-margin"/>

>Electronic signals are said to have integrity when there is no corruption of information between one domain and another, such as from a disk drive to a computer display. 
>Such integrity is a fundamental principle of information assurance. 
>Corrupted information is untrustworthy, yet uncorrupted information is of value. 
>
>[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integrity#In_other_disciplines)

<hr class="with-no-margin"/>

>In common usage, **integrity** is much more common than its adjectival form, **integrous**.
>
>[Wiktionary](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/integrous)

> Extent to which access to software or data by unauthorized persons can be controlled.
>
> [McCall-1978](/references/#mccall)

Commit message:

add CIA triad information to iso-27001 and related qualities

_qualities/I/integrity.md, after:

---
title: Integrity
tags: secure
related: confidentiality, security
standards: iso25010, iso27001
permalink: /qualities/integrity
---

See [#secure](/tag-secure)

### Definitions:


>Capability of a product to ensure that the state of its system and data are protected from unauthorized modification or deletion either by malicious action or computer error
>
>[ISO-25010:2023](/references/#iso-25010-2023)

<hr class="with-no-margin"/>

>The property of accuracy and completeness of information.
>
>[ISO-27001:2022](https://www.iso.org/standard/27001)

<hr class="with-no-margin"/>


>Electronic signals are said to have integrity when there is no corruption of information between one domain and another, such as from a disk drive to a computer display. 
>Such integrity is a fundamental principle of information assurance. 
>Corrupted information is untrustworthy, yet uncorrupted information is of value. 
>
>[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integrity#In_other_disciplines)

<hr class="with-no-margin"/>

>In common usage, **integrity** is much more common than its adjectival form, **integrous**.
>
>[Wiktionary](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/integrous)

> Extent to which access to software or data by unauthorized persons can be controlled.
>
> [McCall-1978](/references/#mccall)
