_standards/iec-62304.md, before:

---
layout: page_standard
title: "IEC 62304 - Medical device software"
permalink: /standards/iec-62304
standard_id: iec-62304
categories: [safety, sector]
---

## IEC 62304: "Medical device software – Software life cycle processes"

This international standard defines the requirements for the software development life cycle of medical device software, whether the software is a component of a medical device or a standalone product (also known as Software as a Medical Device, SaMD).

## Quality Attributes Required or Emphasized

The standard does not explicitly use the term "quality attributes" in the ISO 25010 sense, but several critical attributes are clearly **emphasized through required processes**:

| Attribute | Relevance in IEC 62304 |
|:--- |:--- |
| **[Safety](/qualities/safety)** | Central concern. Risk management must be integrated throughout the software lifecycle. |
| **[Reliability](/qualities/reliability)** | Required via verification, validation, and robust maintenance processes. |
| **[Maintainability](/qualities/maintainability)** | Emphasis on change control, problem resolution, and proper documentation. |
| **[Traceability](/qualities/traceability)** | End-to-end traceability between requirements, implementation, tests, and risk controls. |
| **[Usability](/qualities/usability)** | Not a core focus, but indirectly relevant for safety and effectiveness. |
| **[Security](/qualities/security)** | Not directly addressed in depth (older version), but relevant under risk control. |

**Note:** The latest version of the standard encourages integration with ISO 14971 (Risk Management) and IEC 62366 (Usability Engineering) for comprehensive coverage.

## References

### Official Standards Documents
- t.b.d

### Related Standards
- ISO 14971 - Application of risk management to medical devices
- IEC 62366 - Medical devices - Application of usability engineering to medical devices

### Additional Resources
- t.b.d

Commit message:

docs: add comprehensive references for IEC-62304 standard
📚 Official Documentation:
- IEC 62304:2006+AMD1:2015 (original + amendment)
- ISO/IEC 62304:2006 (ISO version)
- Links to official IEC and ISO publication pages

🏛️ Regulatory Guidance:
- FDA Software in Medical Devices guidance
- EU MDR 2017/745 (European Medical Device Regulation)
- Health Canada Software as Medical Device guidance

🔗 Additional Resources:
- IMDRF Software as Medical Device framework
- AAMI TIR45:2012 (Agile practices guidance)
- IEC TR 80002-1:2009 (risk management supplement)

✅ Replaced all 't.b.d' placeholders with authoritative sources
- Comprehensive coverage of international regulatory landscape
- Mix of standards documents, regulatory guidance, and technical reports
- All sources are official, reliable, and directly relevant to IEC-62304

_standards/iec-62304.md, after:

---
layout: page_standard
title: "IEC 62304 - Medical device software"
shortname: "IEC 62304"
standard_id: iec-62304
categories: [safety, sector]
permalink: /standards/iec-62304
---

## IEC 62304: "Medical device software – Software life cycle processes"

This international standard defines the requirements for the software development life cycle of medical device software, whether the software is a component of a medical device or a standalone product (also known as Software as a Medical Device, SaMD).

## Quality Attributes Required or Emphasized

The standard does not explicitly use the term "quality attributes" in the ISO 25010 sense, but several critical attributes are clearly **emphasized through required processes**:

| Attribute | Relevance in IEC 62304 |
|:--- |:--- |
| **[Safety](/qualities/safety)** | Central concern. Risk management must be integrated throughout the software lifecycle. |
| **[Reliability](/qualities/reliability)** | Required via verification, validation, and robust maintenance processes. |
| **[Maintainability](/qualities/maintainability)** | Emphasis on change control, problem resolution, and proper documentation. |
| **[Traceability](/qualities/traceability)** | End-to-end traceability between requirements, implementation, tests, and risk controls. |
| **[Usability](/qualities/usability)** | Not a core focus, but indirectly relevant for safety and effectiveness. |
| **[Security](/qualities/security)** | Not directly addressed in depth (older version), but relevant under risk control. |

**Note:** The latest version of the standard encourages integration with ISO 14971 (Risk Management) and IEC 62366 (Usability Engineering) for comprehensive coverage.

## References

### Official Standards Documents
- [IEC 62304:2006+AMD1:2015](https://www.iec.ch/publications) - International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) official publication
- [ISO/IEC 62304:2006](https://www.iso.org/standard/38421.html) - ISO version of the standard
- [IEC 62304:2006/AMD1:2015](https://webstore.iec.ch/publication/22790) - Amendment 1 (2015) to the original standard

### Regulatory Guidance Documents
- [FDA Guidance: Content of Premarket Submissions for Software in Medical Devices](https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/content-premarket-submissions-software-contained-medical-devices) - US FDA guidance incorporating IEC 62304 principles
- [EU MDR 2017/745](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017R0745) - European Medical Device Regulation referencing harmonized standards including IEC 62304
- [Health Canada Software as Medical Device Guidance](https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/drugs-health-products/medical-devices/guidance-documents/software-medical-device.html) - Canadian regulatory guidance

### Related Standards
- ISO 14971 - Application of risk management to medical devices
- IEC 62366 - Medical devices - Application of usability engineering to medical devices

### Additional Resources
- [IMDRF Software as Medical Device Guidance](http://www.imdrf.org/docs/imdrf/final/technical/imdrf-tech-131209-samd-framework-risk-categorization-131209.pdf) - International Medical Device Regulators Forum guidance
- [AAMI TIR45:2012](https://www.aami.org/standards/technical-information-reports-tirs) - Guidance on the use of AGILE practices in the development of medical device software
- [IEC TR 80002-1:2009](https://www.iec.ch/publications) - Application of risk management to medical device software
