_includes/about/contributors.md, before:

## Acknowledgements {#acknowledgements} 

- Thanx to Michael Mahlberg, Peter Hruschka, Markus Meuten and Daniel Lauxtermann for suggestions, bug fixes and moral support. 
- Thanx to Steffen Späthe for his intense reviews and constructive comments concerning the content. 
- Thanx to [Dr. Alexander Lorz](https://lorz-it.de) and [Dr. Michael Sperber](https://active-group.com) for intense discussion around quality.
- Thanx to [Per Starke](https://perstarke-webdev.de/) for his awesome technical support in things around Liquid and Jekyll. 
- Thanx to [Remko Plantenga @exde3297](https://github.com/exde3297), [Martin Weck @martinweck](https://github.com/martinweck), [Eberhard Wolff @ewolff](https://github.com/PapaBravo), [Paul Boeck @PapaBravo](https://github.com/PapaBravo), [Dean de Bree @ddebree](https://github.com/ddebree), [Markus Stier @mstier](https://github.com/mstier), [Fabian Angst @angstitc](https://github.com/angstitc) for their contributions. 

Find the complete list of contributors [here](https://github.com/arc42/quality.arc42.org-site/graphs/contributors)

Commit message:

feat: add color scheme to about page and README
Adds a CSS grid with the color scheme to the about page and a screenshot to the README.

Also adds information about the CSS variables used for the color scheme and extends the list of quality attributes for MISRA C.

_includes/about/contributors.md, after:

## Acknowledgements {#acknowledgements} 

- Thanx to Michael Mahlberg, Peter Hruschka, Markus Meuten and Daniel Lauxtermann for suggestions, bug fixes and moral support. 
- Thanx to Steffen Späthe for his intense reviews and constructive comments concerning the content. 
- Thanx to [Dr. Alexander Lorz](https://lorz-it.de) and [Dr. Michael Sperber](https://active-group.com) for intense discussion around quality.
- Thanx to [Per Starke](https://perstarke-webdev.de/) for his awesome technical support in things around Liquid and Jekyll. 
- Thanx to [Remko Plantenga @exde3297](https://github.com/exde3297), [Martin Weck @martinweck](https://github.com/martinweck), [Eberhard Wolff @ewolff](https://github.com/PapaBravo), [Paul Boeck @PapaBravo](https://github.com/PapaBravo), [Dean de Bree @ddebree](https://github.com/ddebree), [Markus Stier @mstier](https://github.com/mstier), [Fabian Angst @angstitc](https://github.com/angstitc) for their contributions. 

- Numerous issues and PRs were fixed with support by GPT-5, Claude-Sonnet and Gemini-2.5 Pro. These LLMs know css definitely better than I do.
  
Find the complete list of contributors [here](https://github.com/arc42/quality.arc42.org-site/graphs/contributors)
