_qualities/D/determinism.md, before:

---
title: Determinism
tags: [reliable, efficient]
related: [reproducibility, consistency, testability, reliability, time-behaviour, transactionality]
permalink: /qualities/determinism
---

Determinism means that under the same inputs and initial conditions, a system produces the same externally observable behavior.
This is foundational for reproducible testing, debugging, formal reasoning, and fault-tolerant replication.

## Determinism Levels

* **Functional determinism**: same inputs and state lead to the same outputs.
* **Temporal determinism**: responses are produced within specified time bounds.
* **Sequential determinism**: relevant event ordering is consistent and well-defined.

## Notes For AI-Enabled Systems

Determinism can be engineered at system level even when model internals are probabilistic, for example by controlling prompts, tool orchestration, model/version pinning, and runtime configuration.

## References

1. Fred B. Schneider, "Implementing Fault-Tolerant Services Using the State Machine Approach: A Tutorial", ACM Computing Surveys 22(4), 1990. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/98163.98167
2. Leslie Lamport, "Time, Clocks, and the Ordering of Events in a Distributed System", Communications of the ACM 21(7), 1978. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/359545.359563
3. C. L. Liu and James W. Layland, "Scheduling Algorithms for Multiprogramming in a Hard-Real-Time Environment", Journal of the ACM 20(1), 1973. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/321738.321743

Commit message:

content: add NIST AI RMF 1.0 standard
Adds NIST Artificial Intelligence Risk Management Framework (AI RMF 1.0,
NIST.AI.100-1, Jan 2023) as a new standard page at _standards/other/nist-ai-rmf.md.

Standard page covers:
- Seven trustworthiness characteristics (valid/reliable, safe, secure/resilient,
  accountable/transparent, explainable/interpretable, privacy-enhanced, fair)
- Four core functions with all categories: GOVERN (6), MAP (5), MEASURE (4), MANAGE (4)
- Relationships to ISO/IEC 42001, ISO 24028, NIST SP 800-53, ISO/IEC 22989

Quality pages updated with nistairmf standard reference:
- accountability, explainability, fairness, privacy, reliability, resilience,
  safety, security, transparency

Also adds explainability as a related quality on determinism.md, reflecting the
AI-context relationship between non-determinism and explainability challenges.

_qualities/D/determinism.md, after:

---
title: Determinism
tags: [reliable, efficient]
related: [reproducibility, consistency, testability, reliability, time-behaviour, transactionality, explainability]
permalink: /qualities/determinism
---

Determinism means that under the same inputs and initial conditions, a system produces the same externally observable behavior.
This is foundational for reproducible testing, debugging, formal reasoning, and fault-tolerant replication.

## Determinism Levels

* **Functional determinism**: same inputs and state lead to the same outputs.
* **Temporal determinism**: responses are produced within specified time bounds.
* **Sequential determinism**: relevant event ordering is consistent and well-defined.

## Notes For AI-Enabled Systems

Determinism can be engineered at system level even when model internals are probabilistic, for example by controlling prompts, tool orchestration, model/version pinning, and runtime configuration.

Lack of determinism (indeterminism) complicates **[explainability](/qualities/explainability)**, as non-reproducible behavior makes it difficult to trace outputs back to consistent causes or features.

## References

1. Fred B. Schneider, "Implementing Fault-Tolerant Services Using the State Machine Approach: A Tutorial", ACM Computing Surveys 22(4), 1990. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/98163.98167
2. Leslie Lamport, "Time, Clocks, and the Ordering of Events in a Distributed System", Communications of the ACM 21(7), 1978. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/359545.359563
3. C. L. Liu and James W. Layland, "Scheduling Algorithms for Multiprogramming in a Hard-Real-Time Environment", Journal of the ACM 20(1), 1973. https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/321738.321743
